22nd November 2017

I have chosen a plan for continued development in the mid term.  I am not going to reuse verbatim the old Gumbler
animation logic.  I have not re-used existing logic wholesale yet, except for the animation description, which I
consider data and not logic.  I am first going to work on the grid metadata, describing the various movement related
areas, creating something equivalent to a navigation mesh. With visual representation or where the gumblers can walk,
climb, stand and sit, this will be the perfect place to move into the pathfinding logic.  Once that is done, the
movement directives and state machine will probably come almost automatically by filling in the gaps.

20th November 2017

I've now completed the fishing animation for the gumbler, and it looks pretty good.  I still only have a 'test' scene
that contains a single gumbler sprite, and not a system to contain multiple sprites yet.  The question now is about
how much further I take the gumbler classes, without starting to put in place the framework for pathfinding, movement
and AI.  I'm going to list here all the various logical functions of the old AquaStax2.java handleGumblers method,
which took care of all little buggers in the original game.  This should hopefully give me a to-do list of sorts:

Local Calculated State:

1) all gumblers drowned
2) all gumblers rescued

Loop over each active Gumbler:

- Update Sprite at 20fps
- Set speed factor if climbing
- Check for state change request (from the level script)
- If no requested change, call animateGumbler:
- Handle drowning
- Handle exiting
- Handle exited
- Handle the disco pickup
- Check for drowning
- Check if has reached exit
- Check for pickups
- Check for blundering into hazard

animateGumbler

This is the general logic for the gumbler walking, climbing and timeout.  This is a great comment, lifted from the
original code:

//
// In general, a Gumbler wants to be positioned on the bottom middle of an empty block, above a solid block.
// If the block width of the area he's standing upon is 2 blocks or less, he'll wait, standing still, with appropriate timeouts.
// If the block width is 3 or more blocks wide, he'll wander about.  If he is standing upon a block or platform (but not the ground)
// with nothing to the side, he might sit down, and even start fishing.
//
// He'll only start to climb up a set of blocks when it gets to 2 blocks or higher.  That is, there has to be a block on the square
// upon which he's positioned, and one above it.  When he gets to the square before the top of a tower, he will hang for a short while
// and then climb up onto the top of the blocks.
//

Here's the basic logic for animateGumbler:

- If climbing or walking, run pathfinding to determine direction requirements
- If knocked off, update based on looping path and falling
- Determine climb animation based on direction requirements
- Check for falling (when the stack is collapsed)
- Handle wakeup of a sleeping gumbler
- Handle random timeouts for a sitting gumbler
- Handle the fishing and reeling in
- Handle hitting platform (and play area) edges and turning around

The combined functions of handleGumblers and animateGumbler total of 1337 lines of code.  That's a lot, for just two
functions!  Then there is another 411 lines of code, comprising a dozen helper functions such as canWalkOn, waterIsClose
etc.

I think I will ponder this complexity for a little while before I dive in.  All this code is without any external references
or libraries.  It is pure, hard coded logic, designed very specifically with the internals of the old game in mind. Although
it was thoroughly tested, the same logic might not hold up in the new system, but it is a lot to have to re-write from
scratch.

16th October 2017

Almost one month after I started on the Gumbler Animation System, I'm at a pretty good point to pause and reflect. It
is working well, with a significant amount of the original intent of the scripted data still in place.  Some simple (ish)
overrides of the cc.Sprite class (into an aq.Sprite subclass) allow for per frame updating of image (with mirror), sprite
position and timings.  All the sprite animations still look really great, and hold up well I think. I had some issues
with getting the sprite position change (movement) correct, with what appeared to be a bug where the first frame after
a transition would cause double the expected movement. I think this is resolved, however, after reviewing my original
java baased Spritey tool, I'm not sure the new animations are identical to the original, but the new ones are good
enough.

The final set of things to do with the animations, before implementing the gumbler AI is to add in the various extra
effects that were hard coded within the source.  These include the fishing animation with line and fish drawn overlaid
in top of the sprite, and the drowning animation, with bubbles drawn overlaid.

14th September 2017

After writing my thoughts out in longhand, and thinking over the dilema of the flipped sprite frames for a day on the
train, I've implemented a really simple mechanism that overrides the cc.Sprite.setSpriteFrame method.  Saving the
flippedX property within a cc.SpriteFrame object, and setting the property on the Sprite object as the frame is set,
works a treat.  With sprite frames cached by name, but saved as cc.Animation objects with the correct horizontal flip
setting, the sprite object itself can handle the horizontal mirroring.

13th September 2017


Gumbler Animation System History

I have taken the original Gumbler Animation System data file and converted it to Javascript. The original text definition
file was a domain specific language, with the processor implemented by a jflex/cup parser. The processor generated pure 
binary data (as arrays) from the animations and processed png image files.

The runtime animation system loaded the binary animation and image data, and presented a state machine for the gumblers,
handled all the animations and transitions, and rendered the sprites frame by frame.

The complex set of animations, even when encoded at it's highest quality and sprite resolution was still only about
250kb of data. This was then compressed within .jar files to take up less package space, and at runtime, could be memory
managed to use minimal heap. When the animations were reduced (automatically) based on some filters, it was possible
to output a bundle of less than 64kb in size, useable on even the lowest end, extremely memory limited devices of the time. 

Modern Sprite Animation with Cocos2D-JS

I decided that attempting to recreate the domain specific language parser and sprite processor in Javascript was not a
good use of time. I did investigate some parser generators that output Javascript, but the original Java based lexer and
parser definitions would need almost a complete re-write. I could have kept the processor in Java, just modifying it's output 
to be more relevant to a new animation system, but I think the new system would still have had to be created with all the 
constraints of the original. I want to animate the gumblers in my new game using the modern and comphrensive sprite animation
features of Cocos2D-JS, and not simply port my 10 year old code.

There is still a lot of useful information within the text based sprite definition data file. With the help of some simple
editor macros (SlickEdit) I was easily able to convert the data file into syntatically correct Javascript. By implementing 
the various keyword functions like image(), begin_anim(), major_state() etc. I should be able to build a data structure that
can then be used to generate Cocos2D-JS sprite/node/action animations.

However (Snags)

This is where I am today, writing my thoughts out in long form so I can get clarity on them. I have translated the sprite
definitions into Javascript, and I have a rudimentary set of functions that can render the animations of a Gumbler. However
there are some snags I have hit that I must work out.

  1) The original animation definition relied heavily on using images mirrored horizontally. The MIRROR keyword was used
  at the image level, so individual frames of animations could be mirrored copies of other frames. This does not translate
  well to sprite frames defined within a TexturePacker created packed texture. Cocos2D-JS/X has the concept of an entire
  sprite being flipped in the X direction (flippedX), but does not support individual sprite frame textures being flipped.

  2) The original animation system runtime was entirely built from scratch, and hence managed the sprite update entirely
  by itself. Each game update called the sprite runtime update method, which handled all state changes, movement and frame 
  incrementing based on the delta time for the update. The render method was almost trivial, simply rendering the current
  frame at it's already calculated position. 

  The Cocos2D-JS sprite animation system is built on the concept of an individual cc.Sprite instance running a cc.Animation 
  which is comprised of cc.SpriteFrame instances for the image updating. Alongside this, you create sequences of cc.Action
  elements and call runAction on the sprite node to perform things like movement, flipping and other transformations.

  All of this happens logically independently of the main game update loop.  Mapping the original animation data to 
  the new system is not quite straightfoward, especially in the areas of individually variable frame times, and sprite
  frame image mirror/flippedX requirements.


BUGS

TO REFACTOR
99) Rename block or grid functions that only operate on single cells (that is, the 50x50 grid cell sized elements)


